./" Manpage for rmb.g
./" Contact ..@tallence.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "09 Oct 2017" "1.0" "rmb man page"
.SH NAME 
rmb \- tool to access dovecot mail objects in rados
.SH SYNOPSIS
rmb <OPTIONS> <COMMANDS> 
.SH DESCRIPTION
rmb is a shell program for manipulating and listing dovecot mail objects in ceph object storage.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-p\  pool
The option\(aqs argument is the rados pool name where the mail objects 
are stored 

.TP
.BI \-N\  username
The option\(aqs argument is the rados namespace where the user mails are stored. Internally this namespace is the username. 

.TP
.BI \-O\  output\ path
The option\(aqs argument is the path where mails are stored when using get command option. ~/ can be used 

.TP
.BI \-h\  
 displays the usage information
 
.TP
.BI \-o\ objectname  
 defines the dovecot-ceph configuration object, if not given a object with oid rbox_cfg is used.
 
.TP
.BI \-c\ cluster_name  
 The rados cluster name, default is ceph.

.TP
.BI \-u\ rados_user  
 The rados user to use, default is client.admin


.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI ls\  list\ mails
The command\(aqs argument are search criterias
 
.BI all\ 
The option\(aqs argument will list all mail objects

.BI mb\ 
The option\(aqs argument will list mailboxes

.BI \<METADATA><OP><VALUE>\ 
The option is used to filter the output. (see below) 

.TP
.BI get\  download\ mails
The command\(aqs argument are search criterias
 
.BI \-all\ 
The option\(aqs argument will list all mail objects

.BI \<METADATA><OP><VALUE>\ 
The option is used to filter the output (see below). 

.TP
.BI set\  set\ metadata
The command\(aqs takes the oid as identifier, fallowed by a list of Metadata attributes in the form <METADATA> <VALUE> ...

.TP
.BI sort\  sort\ output
Currently the following sort keywords are defined: uid, recv_date, save_date, phy_size
		
.TP
.BI lspools
List all available pools

.TP
.BI delete\ oid
delete the e-mail object. It is required to use the -N option and to confirm the deletion with --yes-i-really-really-mean-it

TP
.BI rename\ dovecot_user_name  
 Renames a user
 
 
.SH CONFIGURATION

	
.TP
.BI \cfg\ update\ key=value
Update configuration key with value. Changes to configuration need to be confirmed with  --yes-i-really-really-mean-it

	
.TP
.BI cfg\ create\ 
Create the default configuration.

.TP
.BI cfg\ ls\ show 
print the current configuation to screen.

.SH METADATA

.TP
.BI U\ UID
Dovecots unique id, this number is unique inside a mailbox. Type: numeric
.TP
.BI R\ Receive\ time
Mail receive time in the format YYYY\-MM\-DD HH:mm:ss. Type: data

.TP
.BI Z\ Physical mail\ size
The physical mail size in bytes. Type: numeric

.TP
.BI V\ Virtual\ mail\ size
The virtual mail size in bytes. Type: numeric

.TP
.BI M\ Mailbox\ guid
The mailbox global unique identifier. This represents the mailbox of the mail. Type: numeric

.TP
.BI B\ mailbox\ original\ name
the mailbox plain name. This attribute names the first mail folder the mail was saved into. There exists a dovecot-ceph plugin option
to keep this value up to date. Type: string

.TP
.BI G\ Mail\ guid\ (string value)
The mails global unique identifier. Type: string

.TP
.BI I\ dovecot\-ceph\ plugin\ version
current version is 0.1. Type: string

.SH OP

.TP
.BI =\ equals
The equals operator can be used for all Metadata types

.TP
.BI <\ smaller
The smaller operator cannot be used for non string Metadata types (V, Z, R, U)

.TP
.BI >\ greater\ than
The greater than operator cannot be used for non string Metadata types (V, Z, R, U)

.SH VALUE

.TP
.BI date\ format
Rmb currently supports the following date format %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S. For date metadata (R) it is required
to use this format. The datestring needs to be encapsulated in apostrophes.

.TP
.BI numeric
Currently only integer values are supported. 

.TP
.BI string
If string values contain a space, it needs to be encapsulated in apostrophes. 

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
.BI list\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ mail_storage
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls -

.TP
.BI download\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ to\ the\ default\ output\ path
rmb -p mail_storage -N t get -

.TP
.BI list\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ with\ UID>10
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls U>10

.TP
.BI list\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ with\ UID>10\ and sort
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls U>10 sort uid

.TP
.BI list\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ with\ R>2017-10-23 10:33:00\ and\ sort
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls R>"2017-10-23 10:33:00" sort uid

.TP
.BI list\ all\ mails\ of\ user (t)\ in\ pool\ with\ UID>10\ and sort
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls U>10 sort uid

.TP
.BI list\ all\ mailboxes\ of\ user (t)
rmb -p mail_storage -N t ls mb

.TP
.BI update\ metadata\ U \=\ 100
rmb -p mail_storage -N t set <oid> U 100

.TP
.BI list\ available\ pools
rmb lspools

.SH SEE ALSO
rados (8), ceph (8), doveadm (1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs

.SH AUTHOR
Tallence AG
